There are other sentiment tasks than just
simple positive or negative polarity.
One important one has to do with finding
the sentiment of an individual sentence,
which we're going to want to do for
finding aspects or
attributes that we talked about earlier.
So that's the finding
the target of the sentiment,
what it is that we're talking
with the sentiment about.
So here's a sentence, the food was
great but the service was awful.
This whole sentence doesn't
really have a sentiment.
It has a positive sentiment about food and
a negative sentiment about service.
So we'd like to be able to deal with this
kind of micro sentiment where we have
a sentiment about one attribute and
a different sentiment about
a different attribute or aspect.
So how are we going to find the aspect or
attribute, or sometimes it's
called target of a sentiment?
And I'll show you an example that,
a way of doing things that
was developed both by Hu and
Liu and by Blair-Goldensohn, et al.
And the idea is we first look
through all the reviews, and
we find every highly frequent phrase.
So let's say that the word fish tacos
occurs a lot in this particular
restaurant reviews of this restaurant, and
then we mark down, we have filters that
say we prefer highly frequent phrases if
they occur right after a sentiment word.
So maybe we very often see the phrase
great followed by fish tacos or
terrible followed by fish tacos.
That suggests that fish
tacos is an aspect,
a likely aspect, of a,
let's say a Tacoria.
So if we see great food a lot,
we see food occurring very often
in a review, and we see the word great and
terrible and awful before it a lot,
we know it's probably an aspect that
people are applying sentiment for.
And this can be used automatically to
find sentiment for lots of things.
So Blair-Goldensohn, et al used it for
example, for casino, reviews of casinos,
to find words like casino,
buffet, pool, resort, and
beds are the kind of things people
comment about in reviews on casinos.
For a barber you might talk
about the experience or
how good a job it was or
facts about the haircut.
For a department store you might talk
about sales, or different departments, or
the selection of the store,
things like that.
So we can automatically find the aspect.
In other cases though,
the word that describes the aspect
may not be in the sentence.
And so for some sentiment topics like
restaurants or hotels, it's pretty well
understood what the aspects are that
people care about for restaurants.
For restaurants they tend to care
about food, decor, service, value and
so for cases where we know in advance
what the frequent aspects are.
Here, we can take a small
corpus of restaurant reviews,
and we can hand label it.
We'll just mark every sentence.
Does this sentence talk about the food?
Does it talk about the decor,
or is it none of the above?
And then we can just build a classifier,
which given a sentence assigns
an aspect to the sentence.
Is this sentence about food,
is the sentence about decor,
sentence about service and so on.
And it could be a sentence or
we could assign that with phrases or
maybe with clauses, with pieces of
sentences, which ever we'd like to do.
So two ways of finding
aspect of a sentiment.
We can automatically find frequent
phrases, so we can find phrases.
And then we can build up a set of phrases
that occur frequently, and decide those
are good phrases that we'd like to know
about for this particular product.
Or, we can decide the aspects in advance,
aspects come in advance, like we
know what they are for restaurants.
And then our job is just to build a little
classifier to find them in the reviews so
we can decide if what a person said
about the food was positive or negative.
So putting this all together this is the
Blair-Goldensohn algorithm, from Google we
have a set of reviews, we're going to
extract a bunch of sentences or phrases,
so here's our extracted sentences or
phrases, and now for
each one of them we're going to
run our sentiment classifier.
Is this phrase positive,
negative, or maybe it's neutral?
Okay?
And then for the ones that have sentiment
in them, the ones that are positive or
negative, so now we have sentiments and
phrases with sentiment, plus, minus,
minus, plus, plus, minus, and so on.
We're going to extract
the aspects of these.
So is this about food?
Is it about decor?
What's the sentence about?
So now we have plus food, and
now we have minus decor,
minus service and so on.
For each sentence or phrase we have
both a sentiment and an aspect.
Now we aggregate these together and
produce a final summary.
And here's an example of what you
might get as the final summary.
So, maybe for a hotel for rooms, we might
get this sentence, the room was clean and
everything worked fine,
positive sentiment.
Another positive sentiment.
Here's an example of negative sentiment.
So we first figure out that
worst is a negative sentiment.
And then we might extract from
somewhere in here that there's some
mention of rooms.
And similarly for service,
we might see service
gives new meaning to slow,
and that's negative.
We made some simplifications in
the baseline method we gave for
sentiment classification.
We assumed that the classes, positive and
negative occurred with equal frequency.
And that's of course not usually true
in the real world and it turns out that
when the classes are not balanced,
we can't use accuracies as an evaluation.
And the F-score can deal well and when
evaluating classes where there's many more
positive than negative or maybe there's
many more negative than positive reviews.
It turns out that this, if there's
a severe imbalance in class frequencies,
that can actually degrade
the classifier performance.
And there are two standard
things we do to deal with that.
One is we just resampled before we train.
So for example,
if one class has a million reviews and
one class has 10,000 reviews,
then we might just dance down sample and
take only ten to the fourth of these
reviews to match with these reviews.
Instead of resampling we can
use cost sensitive learning.
Cost sensitive learning,
we actually change the classifier and
we tell the classifier even though you've
seen a lot of this frequent thing,
penalize it for
misclassifying the really rare thing.
And so that'll force it to focus
a little more on the rarer
things than on the very frequent things.
So two things you can do to deal with
the imbalanced frequency problem
that often occurs in real classes.
We also in our baseline algorithm
made the simplifying assumption that
sentiment was a binary problem,
positive or negative.
So how do we deal with five stars,
or seven stars, or ten stars?
There was two ways we can do this.
We can map onto a binary class,
we can say things that
are more than 3.5 stars are positive or
less than 3.5 are negative.
Or we can take the average of all the
data, we can Z score, we can do various
ways of drawing a boundary between
positive things and negative things.
Or we can actually attack the one to seven
classification task directly by
using linear, ordinal regression, or
specialized models like metric
labeling that's used by Pang and Lee.
So again, we can either downsample and
just do binary classification or
we can use a more advanced method of
classification that lets us predict
an ordinal value or a real valued number.
So in summary, sentiment generally modeled
as a classification task, polarity,
often with binary, less often with some
kind of ordinal or linear valued label.
And negation,
a very important feature to use.
For lots of tasks, using all the words
in naive bayes seems to work well.
For other tasks,
using subsets of words may help.
And we can either used hand-built
polarity lexicons, or for tasks for
which the polarity lexicons seem
inappropriate, we can induce
lexicons using semi-supervised
learning from some hand-built seeds.
Now remember that sentiment is really just
one of many kinds of affective states.
It's a kind of attitude classification,
but
there's lots of other kinds of affective
state classification that come up and
they are computational problems that
are similar to sentiment analysis.
So to look at some of them for emotions,
we might want to detect annoyed
callers to some dialogue systems,
so it's detecting the emotion of
annoyance, or detect confused or
frustrated students in an online tutorial,
versus confident students.
For longer moods,
we want to find traumatized or
depressed people like
writers of some blog or text.
In conversations we might want to detect
if someone's friendly or unfriendly.
In very long term personality traits
we might want to detect extroverts or
introverts for building dialogue
systems that can communicate
better with extroverts or introverts.
And there's lots of research
actually on all of these tasks.
We'll just show you one of them which is
a task we've worked on here at Stanford
which is detection of friendliness.
So friendly speakers, it turns out,
use collaborative conversational style so
we've built classifiers that look at
features like how often someone laughs or
how often they use negative emotional
words or how frequently they use phrases
like, that's too bad, that indicate
sympathy or agreement, I think so too.
So the more friendly someone is, the more
likely they are to use sympathetic words,
or agreement, or the less likely they are
to use a hedge like, kind of or sort of.
And we've shown that these classifiers
help and we've looked at the task of
detecting how friendly someone is, or
how flirtatious someone is in speed dates.
And we found that these kind of features
help in detecting friendliness.
So simple lexical features like words and
phrases, and where we have speech.
Speech features like prosody or pitch, all
of these can help in detecting sentiment,
simple polarity, and much more rich,
effective meaning of all sorts of kinds.